Thinking a lot about going to a theory conference.

And also imporantly the differece between registration costs.

First lay some basic principles.
We have professional societies.
Way of unifiying the field and idea is that they are going to look out for you.
I pay my dues to SMT, get to go to conferences, Spectrum, also got to apply for things like dissertation award.

Now not grad student, wonder how as card carrying theorist, how SMT serves me?
And how does it serve others in terms of the goals it puts foward?

One thing with national confernece is that it is very prestigious to present at.
And have to be there to be part of it.
See and be seen.
And very encourged to go to really instill the values (like looking down at name tag).
But is going practical for grad students?

Amount to pay for grad students is X
Amount for faculty to pay is X.
Amount for adjunct people to pay is X.

But what proportion of someone's salary is that?

Did some math to figure that out.

Got PhD stipends from a few friends from when they were a student.
And going to assume that they have not changed much in a year.
Plot them below.

Then wondered how much a theorist makes.
So used my SMT membership to get listing of professors at state schools on list.
Sampled 10 state schools.
Went to departments, found most recent salary I could find on website per department.
Tried to match this up based on departments of graduate students from state schools.
This will change for private.
Schools are listed here, but blocked by region for anon.
Don't yell at me, all this information is publicly availible.

Plot here.

Here are some general trends that I see from my sample.

Now what happens when we put them together.

Look at this with grad students and faculty.

Now if we think of this as a percentage change we see this:

Plot here of rate of conference times with both.

Math here works out to be this based on my calculation.

Obviously needs to make money.

Point here is that if you kept grad rates the same as ratio.
You would then be charging this for professors.

Here is double algerbra chart to see what optimization space would be.

Clearly we have a constrast here between values and value.

Clear case where we could maximize value and values here.

Of course, not the SMT treasurer or statistician.
But anyone that knows me knows I love numbers and using them for change.
Motion to change?

Also theory, what do awards mean 

