How To Host An Experiment

0. Have a Linux or Macbook 
1. Open up AWS account 
	https://medium.com/@connorleech/how-to-launch-an-ec2-instance-de568295205d
2. Put on PHP 
	https://stackoverflow.com/questions/34873685/how-to-install-php-7-on-ec2-t2-micro-instance-running-amazon-linux-distro
3. SCP your shit online 
4. Modify your JS_psych script so that it saves PHP
5. SUDO the right things
6. Test Run it  
7. Get the data off things


https://stackoverflow.com/questions/20939562/scp-permission-denied-publickey-on-ec2-only-when-using-r-flag-on-directories

In this post going to cataluge for myself how I got latest experiment up and running online.
It was not fun also because I have no techincal background.
Very much like the cat analogy in a dark room.
Can be so goddamn close to everything but not really get it.

Had a bit of practice at LSU because had this sketchy server from dan
Got it via ofering the dude a whistky bottle
Then just got shut down out of no where

So now had to re-assemble
Thought about doing the pavolvia thing or JATOS but already had some knowlege
and was not afraid of the command line so just figured I'd go for it
I also that day had a puppy on my lap and was rubberducking to Peter on Whatsapp.

Going to make this as clear as possible.

Did the whole thing again so I can host a replication study that we are doing for LSU.
If you do this whole thing and it helps, please repay me by doing both these two surveys.

Ok, hope you have a cup of coffee, here goes nothing.
Also full disclaimer that I can't ask any what ifs, just describe best I can.
Also going to just describe things as I understand and hope someone will fill me in on it.
Will result in very funny techncial understanding.

Ok so the goal here is to host your experiment online. 
Assume here that you have a jsPsych Experiment ready to go that saves locally. 
Can take this one right here if you need it (notice that the file in current state when you go thru it will just save locally).

First open this on your computer and verify this.
Just simple thing where we have a test.
Notice that the files here are just what we need.
And important here is the directory structure.

We click thru till the end and then it evetually saves.
At this stage will notice that file saves with a random file name.
Set this up for randomization and keeping thing anonymous.

Way that this works is some javascript function here that generates it internally.
Feel free to add it to your script if you want.

Another way to do this would be to have it set up where you add in the participant number in janky way.
For example..
	js code to do that.

Ok, so it works here. 
Now need to depart for a minute from our local experiment.

Point here now is to try to get it on a server.
WTF does that mean in non-technical terms?
too many acroymys with web stuff and if you follwo me on twitter you konw I hate web stuff 

Basically you need a ghost version of your computer living in amazon warehouse.
So we need to set up this ghost computer in Amazon.

First up, go to AWS.
Need to set up a password and login and shit.
First we go here.
Then this takes us to landing page. 

Now what were going to do is follow up on what this blog suggests.
Basically we click thru and try to get all the small free stuff.
I think its designed so that if you use it more you pay more for it.
Not worried about it because not getting that traffic and if did would be happy to pay for that N.

got this bad boy running.
Can tell from here and here.

Ok now need to link the two.
Going to have our local stuff and make the ghost verision in the attic.
Way we do this is link it up with this key.

now line to connect it with ssh
ssh is way that we go up and down

do it with this line here.
Notice that these things are her 

Now bit of a side note here, but I hate this shit
So one thing i do is make aliases

Add this to bash profile with this exact sequences of keystrokes
notice i have some other ones that do cool stuff
lik this one that gets me to my desktop 

reset terminal





