Calculator

Like it or not, there is money in academia.
Not only large profit margin, but having confernece is nothing to sniff at.
At individual level think about it most.
Plane, hotel, local food, and registration and child care
Plust whever else.
Lots of times need to provide interest free loan to university
And some people have no external funding.

But money you pay goes to things.
on SMPC board get to think about this from other angle.
Need money to function and do good things
But what is the best model?

Well this is a data questoin
But also it's a value vs values question
Hail to graber

And as student rep, feel like I have responsiblity to look out for grad students.
Esp important bc have this strange thing set up
	Organizatoins are there to serve the field
	But mostly the field really are professors
	Very helpful for your career (giving you job and income) 
	But also very helpful for students

	Meet future advisors
	Meet future friends
	Get ideas 
	Collaborations
	They are truly invaluable

	But how much should people have to pay for that?
	And really need to value moving away from pay to play structure
	Even if get money back, again need to front it.

So question here is data science: optimze cost AND values

Have a few parameters here in a model we want to make

SMPC: Early late registratoin, student nonstudent, member non member
	Also have on site registration

Can I share data here?

Basically its a big algerbra puzzle

Amount = category * rate + add infinitum

But important question too here is by what magnitude is faculty vs student.

Plot below here
	SMPC Registration

But also for comparison did the sister rates
	SMT
	AMS
	SAM
	EMS
	Psychonomics
	SfN 
	
General trends here:
	Check for main effect of Discipline

Check out these differences
	Note have competing things here
Do NOT have data on how many people of each show up.
But in general, this does give attempt on value ratio.

How does this then compare with general income rates?

Much harder to do because very different.
But data is publicly availible.

Cross line here about journalism vs research vs data science.

Got ten different psychology PhD stipends
Got ten different music PhD stipends
Got ten diffent Professor stipends from matching institutions

Here we have a plot of the disparity between professor salaries and phd salaries.
Here are these ratios

Now compare these ratios to the ratios between conference prices.

I think it should be relative and much more for people who are professors with jobs, salaries, and need for tenure.
Should be minimal for graduate students (bias of former grad stduent and student rep).

But want to also play around with what this might look like as prototype for conference orgnizers.
Calculates rates based on the nine parameters
But also will tell you your ratio between grad and faculty. 

Very interesting question because its value values.
And need to put your money where your mouth is.

Eventually will quantify on how much you "get back"?
